---
title: Lifting Myself Up
date: 2024-01-21 03:07:00 -0400
categories: [Creative Writing]
tags: [writing]   # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

The setup of my local gym reminds me of a dance studio. Along the back of the gym, there are cardio machines – ellipticals, step climbers, stationary bikes, treadmills – arranged in rows, like audiences watching the show to distract themselves from their own pain. Then, arranged in one row along the front of the room are the weight machines. This is the stage. Not only is everyone else facing the weight machines, but the row of mirrors on the front wall of the room mean that a lifter can feel everyone’s eyes on them twice as much.

I walk into the gym, ready to start my career as a lifter. But as I walk down the aisle approaching the dumbbells and squat racks, a nagging sensation takes over me. What if I mess up? If I drop a weight, the loud thud will be like a spotlight shining on me. If I don’t know how to use a piece of equipment, everyone will see. Before I get to the front, I get stage fright and chicken out, diving onto an elliptical machine instead. From my safe position there, I watch those in front of me, as they effortlessly set up their weights and perform their sets. Even as their faces turn red and they grit their teeth, their struggle seems so intentional that I can’t help but be amazed. And yet I’m scared to be one of them.

After a few weeks of careful observation, I finally decide to approach the weights. I go up to cable machines and try to do a seated row I had read about a few days earlier. But after minutes spent searching on the equipment rack, I can’t find the right handle anywhere. I start to walk around, my eyes wandering all over trying to spot the grip while my face tries to look self-assured, until I find something that looks like it will do. Except the only thing is, this grip is metal not rubber. In any case, I jump at the handle and attach it to the cable machine, desperate to start doing some exercise so I don’t look like a complete outsider. Quickly, however, I realize that the material really does make a difference. I struggle, but a few sets in, another lifter comes up to me. This complete stranger comes over and laughs at the fact that I’m doing the sets using the metal grip, and my body seizes up. This is the moment I’ve been dreading, the moment that a gym regular perceives me and understands that I don’t belong. But then he drops the rubber grip I was looking for on the ground next to me and walks away, chuckling as he says casually that he thinks it will make all the difference. I switch out the handles and start doing the sets again, each movement being a lot easier to control this time around. Now, I feel a lot more confident in myself, even though just a few minutes ago I was mortified to be called out for doing an exercise the wrong way. Slowly, I realize that maybe it is not such a bad thing to be noticed. Had I been doing this by myself, I would have kept going with the wrong grip. But now, I see that sometimes being around others can help us improve our own craft, both by observing more skilled people as they take over the stage and also by letting those more skilled people guide us as we rehearse.
