---
title: It's time to focus
date: 2024-01-16 03:07:00 -0400
categories: [Personal]
tags: [thoughts]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

May this post serve as a reminder to myself to be more intentional this semester. 

Life is about the balance between focusing and exploring. At times, I feel frustrated with myself for not putting my head down and going all in on one topic or one idea, unsatisfied by the superficiality of trying to do a lot at one time. However, in the times that I do reach those levels of focus, I fret about whether the commitment, and likely accompanying sacrifice, was ultimately worth it. It's also interesting to be in college, where you can learn about literally anything that you want, but where you have such limited time to take advantage of seemingly unlimited resources. There's pressure to be specialized and an expert,,, but how can you be an expert when it's not always clear if this is what you want to be an expert on? But how will you know once you've found that topic that this is it if you only know about it from a surface level? And isn't life too short to spend this much time thinking about a decision? Perhaps, it is best to pick something that meets a threshold and run with it.

I was talking to a friend recently about how he does work, incredibly focused work at that, because otherwise his mind just keeps racing and he wants an escape from his other thoughts. He's doing high-impact work, which I'm sure he feels passionate about, but I wonder if as a society we conflate work with identity too much — to the point where my friend works so much in order to center his identity around his research because he's scared of developing an identity outside of that, or even outside of productive measures as a whole. Sometimes, the immediate next step to breaking down the identity =/= career neural pathways is to instead make your hobbies into your identity, but perhaps this too can lead to the same flaws of dependency and escapism. Is it not enough to define ourselves by our personal attributes and the direct relationships we form with those around us? The only thing that is constant throughout work and school and other days is ourselves and perhaps our relationships, as situations and roles are ever-changing, especially as the workplace continues to evolve.

But despite my rambling, I have found that even if I do want to prioritize exploring, I should still do this in an intentional and focused way, creating structure for myself. This will help me police myself in order to focus on creation and learning, rather than fretting and worrying. In order to do this, here are some concrete steps I plan on taking to ground myself more this year. I might add to this as I think of new ideas:
* Morning routine: To-do list, check email, sunscreen
* Night routine: Skincare, journaling for 10 minutes, reading
* Technology: Keep Instagram deleted from phone (and be stricter about not using browser Instagram on phone or computer!), Keep a time limit on Twitter
* Desktop: Keep desktop organized with folders (Time spent today will save so much time later!!) and don't let social apps like Messages stay on the desktop — I should only use those when actively taking a break.
* Time Management: Be more intentional about time-blocking and setting limits for tasks. This will not only create a sense of urgency but will also limit the amount of interruptions (in the form of unnecessary thoughts) that hinder my ability to make progress. It might be useful to use systems like Pomodoro.
* Outreach: Talk to at least one new person per week in a research/industry/career context and one new person a week in a social context. Journal about these encounters.
* Head space: Don't think about other people as much. I think sometimes this is good because I generally have high levels of empathy, but I find that too many people live in my head rent-free for little reason. By focusing more on ideas and creation and myself, I hope to spend less time stressing over likely-insignificant social encounters and less time comparing myself to others or projecting their goals or values onto myself. Hopefully, this will push me more towards a life grounded in my desires and intentions, leading me with more down time to engage meaningfully with those I adore. Of course, I don't want to forget about my friends entirely but hopefully through time-blocking and being more intentional about the boundaries between personal life and work, I can start to flourish more in both regards. 
* Passion projects: Do more art (whether that is writing or drawing or painting). It is hard to create an enforceable system for this, since creativity and production cannot always conform to strict routines, but perhaps I can set aside time each weekend to engage?
* Music Environment: Make a more soothing Spotify playlist, to listen to when working, so as not to let it overrule my productivity.
* Drink much more water: is is so simple, but genuinely sometimes I can get so overwhelmed and then I drink a glass of water and I'm like, "Wow, life is okay after all."






